<h2>Cloud Computing Security for Tenants</h2>
        <table>
          <tr>
            <th id="risk" scope="col">Risk</th>
            <th id="ref" scope="col">Mitigation reference number </th>
            <th id="fix" scope="col">Mitigations</th>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <th colspan="3" scope="row">Most effective risk mitigations generally relevant to all types of cloud services: Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS), Platform as a Services (PaaS) and Software as a Service (SaaS) </th>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td rowspan="3" headers="risk r1">Overarching failure to maintain the confidentiality, integrity and availability of the tenant’s data</td>
            <td headers="ref r1">1 - General</td>
            <td headers="fix r1">Use a cloud service that has been assessed<sup>1</sup>, certified and accredited against the ISM<sup>6</sup> at the appropriate classification level, addressing mitigations in the document Cloud Computing Security for Cloud Service Providers<sup>2</sup>.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td headers="ref r2" class="background">2 - General</td>
            <td headers="fix r2" class="background">Implement security governance involving senior management directing and coordinating security-related activities including robust change management<sup>8</sup>, as well as having technically skilled staff in defined security roles.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td headers="ref r3">3 - General</td>
            <td headers="fix r3">Implement and annually test an incident response plan covering data spills, electronic discovery, and how to obtain and analyse evidence e.g. time-synchronised logs, hard disk images, memory snapshots and metadata <sup>9,10</sup>.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td rowspan="2" headers="risk r4">Tenant’s data compromised in transit by malicious third party</td>
            <td headers="ref r4" class="background">4 - General</td>
            <td headers="fix r4" class="background">Use ASD-approved cryptographic controls to protect data in transit between the tenant and the CSP e.g. application layer TLS or IPsec VPN with approved algorithms, key length and key management.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td headers="ref r5">5 - General</td>
            <td headers="fix r5">Use ASD-approved cryptographic controls to protect data at rest on storage media in transit via post/courier between the tenant and the CSP when transferring data as part of on-boarding or off-boarding.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td rowspan="3" headers="risk r6">Tenant’s cloud service account credentials compromised by malicious third party <sup>10,11,12,13</sup></td>
            <td headers="ref r6" class="background">6 - General</td>
            <td headers="fix r6" class="background">Use a corporately approved and secured computer, multi-factor authentication, a strong passphrase, least access privileges<sup>14</sup> and encrypted network traffic to administer (and, if appropriate, access) the cloud service.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td headers="ref r7">7 - General</td>
            <td headers="fix r7">Protect authentication credentials e.g. avoid exposing Application Programming Interface (API) authentication keys placed on insecure computers or in the source code of software that is accessible to unauthorised third parties.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td headers="ref r8" class="background">8 - General</td>
            <td headers="fix r8" class="background">Obtain and promptly analyse detailed time-synchronised logs and real-time alerts for the tenant’s cloud service accounts used to access, and especially to administer, the cloud service.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td rowspan="2" headers="risk r9">Tenant’s data compromised by malicious CSP staff or malicious third party</td>
            <td headers="ref r9">9 - General</td>
            <td headers="fix r9">Obtain and promptly analyse detailed time-synchronised logs and real-time alerts generated by the cloud service used by the tenant e.g. operating system, web server and application logs.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td headers="ref r10" class="background">10 - General</td>
            <td headers="fix r10" class="background">Avoid providing the CSP with account credentials (or the ability to authorise access) to sensitive systems outside of the CSP’s cloud such as systems on the tenant’s corporate network.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td headers="risk r11">Tenant’s data compromised by another malicious/compromised tenant <sup>15,16,17,18,19,20,21,22,23,24</sup></td>
            <td headers="ref r11">11 - General</td>
            <td headers="fix r11">Use multi-tenancy mechanisms provided by the CSP e.g. to separate the tenant’s web application and network traffic from other tenants, use the CSP’s hypervisor virtualisation instead of web server software virtual hosting.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td headers="risk r12">Tenant’s data unavailable due to corruption, deletion<sup>11</sup>, or CSP terminating the account/service</td>
            <td headers="ref r12" class="background">12 - General</td>
            <td headers="fix r12" class="background">Perform up-to-date encrypted backups in a format avoiding CSP lock-in, stored offline at the tenant’s premises or at a second CSP requiring multi-factor authentication to modify/delete data. Annually test the recovery process.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td headers="risk r13">Tenant’s data unavailable or compromised due to CSP bankruptcy or other legal action</td>
            <td headers="ref r13">13 - General</td>
            <td headers="fix r13">Contractually retain legal ownership of tenant data. Perform a due diligence review of the CSP’s contract and financial viability as part of assessing privacy and legal risks<sup>25</sup>.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td headers="risk r14">Cloud service unavailable due to tenant’s inadequate network connectivity to the cloud service</td>
            <td headers="ref r14" class="background">14 - General</td>
            <td headers="fix r14" class="background">Implement adequately high bandwidth<sup>26</sup>, low latency, reliable network connectivity between the tenant (including the tenant’s remote users) and the cloud service to meet the tenant’s availability requirements.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td rowspan="2" headers="risk r15">Cloud service unavailable due to CSP error, planned outage, failed hardware or act of nature</td>
            <td headers="ref r15">15 - General</td>
            <td headers="fix r15">Use a cloud service that meets the tenant’s availability requirements. Assess the Service Level Agreement penalties, and the number, severity, recency and transparency of the CSP’s scheduled and unscheduled outages.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td headers="ref r16" class="background">16 - General</td>
            <td headers="fix r16" class="background">Develop and annually test a disaster recovery and business continuity plan to meet the tenant’s availability requirements e.g. where feasible for simple architectures, temporarily use cloud services from an alternative CSP.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td headers="risk r17">Financial consequences of a genuine spike in demand or bandwidth/CPU denial of service</td>
            <td headers="ref r17">17 - General</td>
			<td headers="fix r17">Manage the cost of a genuine spike in demand or denial of service via contractual spending limits, denial of service mitigation services and judicious use of the CSP’s infrastructure capacity e.g. limits on automated scaling.</td>
		  </tr>
          <tr>
            <th colspan="3" scope="row">Most effective risk mitigations particularly relevant to IaaS</th>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td rowspan="5" headers="risk r18">Tenant’s Virtual Machine (VM) compromised by malicious third party<sup>10</sup></td>
            <td headers="ref r18" class="background">1 - IaaS</td>
            <td headers="fix r18" class="background">Securely configure, harden and maintain VMs with host based security controls<sup>7</sup> e.g. firewall, intrusion prevention system, logging, antivirus software, and prompt patching of all software that the tenant is responsible for.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td headers="ref r19">2 - IaaS</td>
            <td headers="fix r19">Use a corporately approved and secured computer to administer VMs requiring access from the tenant’s IP address, encrypted traffic, and a SSH/RDP PKI key pair protected with a strong passphrase.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td headers="ref r20" class="background">3 - IaaS</td>
            <td headers="fix r20" class="background">Only use VM template images provided by trusted sources, to help avoid the accidental or deliberate presence of malware and backdoor user accounts. Protect the tenant’s VM template images from unauthorised changes.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td headers="ref r21">4 - IaaS</td>
            <td headers="fix r21">Implement network segmentation and segregation<sup>27</sup> e.g. n-tier architecture, using host based firewalls and CSP’s network access controls to limit inbound and outbound VM network connectivity to only required ports/protocols.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td headers="ref r22" class="background">5 - IaaS</td>
            <td headers="fix r22" class="background">Utilise secure programming practices for software developed by the tenant <sup>28,29,30</sup>.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td headers="risk r23">Cloud service unavailable due to CSP error, planned outage, failed hardware or act of nature</td>
            <td headers="ref r23">6 - IaaS</td>
            <td headers="fix r23">Architect to meet availability requirements e.g. minimal single points of failure, data replication, automated failover, multiple availability zones, geographically separate data centres and real-time availability monitoring.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td headers="risk r24">Cloud service unavailable due to genuine spike in demand or bandwidth/CPU denial of service</td>
            <td headers="ref r24" class="background">7 - IaaS</td>
            <td headers="fix r24" class="background">If high availability is required, implement clustering and load balancing, a Content Delivery Network for public web content, automated scaling with an adequate maximum scale value, and real-time availability monitoring.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <th colspan="3" scope="row">Most effective risk mitigations particularly relevant to PaaS</th>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td rowspan="2" headers="risk r25">Tenant’s web application compromised by malicious third party</td>
            <td headers="ref r25">1 - PaaS</td>
            <td headers="fix r25">Securely configure and promptly patch all software that the tenant is responsible for.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td headers="ref r26" class="background">2 - PaaS</td>
            <td headers="fix r26" class="background">Utilise secure programming practices for software developed by the tenant <sup>28,29,30</sup>.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td headers="risk r27">Cloud service unavailable due to CSP error, planned outage, failed hardware or act of nature</td>
            <td headers="ref r27">3 - PaaS</td>
            <td headers="fix r27">Architect to meet availability requirements e.g. minimal single points of failure, data replication, automated failover, multiple availability zones, geographically separate data centres and real-time availability monitoring.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td headers="risk r28">Cloud service unavailable due to genuine spike in demand or bandwidth/CPU denial of service</td>
            <td headers="ref r28" class="background">4 - PaaS</td>
            <td headers="fix r28" class="background">If high availability is required, implement clustering and load balancing, a Content Delivery Network for public web content, automated scaling with an adequate maximum scale value, and real-time availability monitoring.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <th colspan="3" scope="row">Most effective risk mitigations particularly relevant to SaaS</th>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td headers="risk r29">Tenant’s data compromised by malicious CSP staff or malicious third party</td>
            <td headers="ref r29">1 - SaaS</td>
            <td headers="fix r29">Use security controls specific to the cloud service e.g. tokenisation to replace sensitive data with non-sensitive data, or ASD-approved encryption of data (not requiring processing) and avoid exposing the decryption key.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td headers="risk r30">Cloud service unavailable due to genuine spike in demand or bandwidth/CPU denial of service</td>
            <td headers="ref r30" class="background">2 - SaaS </td>
            <td headers="fix r30" class="background">If high availability is required, where possible and appropriate, implement additional cloud services providing layered denial of service mitigation, where these cloud services might be provided by third party CSPs.</td>
          </tr>
        </table>
