
Cloud Computing Security for Cloud Service Providers


        <table>
          <tr>
            <th id="risk" scope="col">Risk</th>
            <th id="ref" scope="col">Mitigation reference number </th>
            <th id="fix" scope="col">Mitigations</th>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <th colspan="3" scope="row">Most effective risk mitigations generally relevant to all types of cloud services: Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS), Platform as a Services (PaaS) and Software as a Service (SaaS) </th>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td rowspan="3" headers="risk r1">Overarching failure to maintain the confidentiality, integrity and availability of the tenant’s data</td>
            <td headers="ref r1">1 - General</td>
            <td headers="fix r1">Obtain certification<sup>1</sup> of the cloud service and underlying infrastructure (explicitly addressing mitigations in this document) against the ISM<sup>6</sup> at the appropriate classification level required to handle the tenant’s data.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td headers="ref r2" class="background">2 - General</td>
            <td headers="fix r2" class="background">Implement security governance involving senior management directing and coordinating security-related activities including robust change management, as well as having technically skilled staff in defined security roles.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td headers="ref r3">3 - General</td>
            <td headers="fix r3">Implement and annually test an incident response plan providing the tenant with emergency contact details, the ability to access forensic evidence otherwise inaccessible to the tenant, and contractual notification of incidents.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td rowspan="3" headers="risk r4">Tenant’s data compromised in transit by malicious third party</td>
            <td headers="ref r4" class="background">4 - General</td>
            <td headers="fix r4" class="background">Support and use ASD-approved cryptographic controls to protect data in transit between the tenant and the CSP e.g. application layer TLS or IPsec VPN with approved algorithms, key length and key management.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td headers="ref r5">5 - General</td>
            <td headers="fix r5">Use ASD-approved cryptographic controls to protect data in transit between the CSP’s data centres over insecure communication channels such as public Internet infrastructure.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td headers="ref r6" class="background">6 - General</td>
            <td headers="fix r6" class="background">Support and use ASD-approved cryptographic controls to protect data at rest on storage media in transit via post/courier between the tenant and the CSP when transferring data as part of on-boarding or off-boarding.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td rowspan="3" headers="risk r6">Tenant’s cloud service account credentials compromised by malicious third party <sup>8,9,10,11</sup></td>
            <td headers="ref r7">7 - General</td>
            <td headers="fix r7">Provide Identity and Access Management e.g. multi-factor authentication and account roles with varying privileges<sup>12</sup> for the tenant to use and administer the cloud service via the CSP’s website control panel and API.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td headers="ref r8" class="background">8 - General</td>
            <td headers="fix r8" class="background">Support and use ASD-approved cryptographic controls to protect credentials and administrative activity in transit when the tenant uses and administers the cloud service via the CSP’s website control panel and API.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td headers="ref r9">9 - General</td>
            <td headers="fix r9">Enable the tenant to download detailed time-synchronised logs and obtain real-time alerts generated for the tenant’s cloud service accounts used to access, and especially to administer, the cloud service.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td rowspan="8" headers="risk r9">Tenant’s data compromised by malicious CSP staff or malicious third party</td>
            <td headers="ref r10" class="background">10 - General</td>
            <td headers="fix r10" class="background">Enable the tenant to download detailed time-synchronised logs and obtain real-time alerts generated by the cloud service used by the tenant e.g. operating system, web server and application logs.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td headers="ref r11">11 - General</td>
            <td headers="fix r11">Disclose the countries and legal jurisdictions where tenant data is (or will be in the coming months) stored, backed up, processed<sup>13</sup> and accessed by CSP staff for troubleshooting, remote administration and customer support.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td headers="ref r12" class="background">12 - General</td>
            <td headers="fix r12" class="background">Perform background checks of CSP staff commensurate with their level of access to systems and data. Maintain security clearances for staff with access to highly sensitive data<sup>14</sup>.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td headers="ref r13">13 - General</td>
            <td headers="fix r13">Use physically-secure data centres and offices that store tenant data or that can access tenant data<sup>15</sup>. Verify and record the identity of all staff and visitors. Escort visitors to mitigate them accessing data without authorisation.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td headers="ref r14" class="background">14 - General</td>
            <td headers="fix r14" class="background">Restrict CSP staff privileged access to systems and data based on their job tasks<sup>12</sup>. Require re-approval every three months for CSP staff requiring privileged access. Revoke access upon termination of CSP staff employment.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td headers="ref r15">15 - General</td>
            <td headers="fix r15">Promptly analyse logs of CSP staff actions that are logged to a secured and isolated log server. Implement separation of duties by requiring log analysis to be performed by CSP staff who have no other privileges or job roles.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td headers="ref r16" class="background">16 - General</td>
            <td headers="fix r16" class="background">Perform a due diligence review of suppliers before obtaining software, hardware or services, to assess the potential increase to the CSP’s security risk profile.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td headers="ref r17">17 - General</td>
            <td headers="fix r17">Use ASD-approved cryptographic controls to protect highly sensitive data at rest. Sanitise storage media prior to repair, disposal, and tenant off-boarding with a non-disclosure agreement for data in residual backups.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td headers="risk r18">Tenant’s data compromised by another malicious/compromised tenant <sup>16,17,18,19,20,21,22,23,24,25</sup></td>
            <td headers="ref r18" class="background">18 - General</td>
            <td headers="fix r18" class="background">Implement multi-tenancy mechanisms to prevent the tenant’s data being accessed by other tenants. Isolate network traffic, storage, memory and computer processing. Sanitise storage media prior to its reuse.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td headers="risk r19">Tenant’s data unavailable due to corruption, deletion<sup>9</sup>, or CSP terminating the account/service</td>
            <td headers="ref r19">19 - General</td>
            <td headers="fix r19">Enable the tenant to perform up-to-date backups in a format that avoids CSP lock-in. If an account or cloud service is terminated, immediately notify the tenant and provide them with at least a month to download their data.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td headers="risk r20">Tenant’s data unavailable or compromised due to CSP bankruptcy or other legal action</td>
            <td headers="ref r20" class="background">20 - General</td>
            <td headers="fix r20" class="background">Contractually ensure that the tenant retains legal ownership of their data.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td headers="risk r21">Cloud service unavailable due to CSP’s inadequate network connectivity</td>
            <td headers="ref r21">21 - General</td>
            <td headers="fix r21">Support adequately high bandwidth, low latency, reliable network connectivity between the tenant and the cloud service to meet the claimed level of availability as required by the tenant.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td rowspan="2" headers="risk r22">Cloud service unavailable due to CSP error, planned outage, failed hardware or act of nature</td>
            <td headers="ref r22" class="background">22 - General</td>
            <td headers="fix r22" class="background">Architect to meet the claimed level of availability as required by the tenant e.g. minimal single points of failure, clustering and load balancing, data replication, automated failover and real-time availability monitoring.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td headers="ref r23">23 - General</td>
            <td headers="fix r23">Develop and annually test a disaster recovery and business continuity plan to meet the claimed level of availability as required by the tenant, e.g. enacted for incidents that cause enduring loss of CSP staff or infrastructure.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td rowspan="2" headers="risk r17">Cloud service unavailable due to genuine spike in demand or bandwidth/CPU denial of service</td>
            <td headers="ref r24" class="background">24 - General</td>
            <td headers="fix r24" class="background">Implement denial of service mitigations to meet the claimed level of availability as required by the tenant e.g. redundant high bandwidth external and internal network connectivity with traffic throttling and filtering.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td headers="ref r25">25 - General</td>
            <td headers="fix r25">Provide infrastructure capacity and responsive automated scaling to meet the claimed level of availability as required by the tenant.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td headers="risk r26">Financial consequences of a genuine spike in demand or bandwidth/CPU denial of service</td>
            <td headers="ref r26" class="background">26 - General</td>
            <td headers="fix r26" class="background">Enable the tenant to manage the cost of a genuine spike in demand or denial of service via contractual spending limits, real-time alerts, and configurable maximum limits for their use of the CSP’s infrastructure capacity.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td rowspan="6" headers="risk r27">CSP’s infrastructure compromised by malicious tenant or malicious third party</td>
            <td headers="ref r27">27 - General</td>
            <td headers="fix r27">Use corporately approved and secured computers, jump servers, dedicated accounts, strong passphrases and multi-factor authentication, to provide customer support and administer cloud services and infrastructure.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td headers="ref r28" class="background">28 - General</td>
            <td headers="fix r28" class="background">Use ASD-approved cryptographic controls to protect credentials and administrative activity in transit over insecure communication channels between the CSP’s data centre and CSP administrator / customer support staff.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td headers="ref r29">29 - General</td>
            <td headers="fix r29">Implement network segmentation and segregation<sup>26</sup> between the Internet, CSP infrastructure used by tenants, the network that the CSP uses to administer cloud services and infrastructure, and the CSP’s corporate LAN.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td headers="ref r30" class="background">30 - General</td>
            <td headers="fix r30" class="background">Utilise secure programming practices for software developed by the CSP <sup>27,28,29</sup>.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td headers="ref r31">31 - General</td>
            <td headers="fix r31">Perform secure configuration, ongoing vulnerability management, prompt patching, annual third party security reviews and penetration testing of cloud services and underlying infrastructure.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td headers="ref r32" class="background">32 - General</td>
            <td headers="fix r32" class="background">Train all CSP staff, especially administrators, on commencement of employment and annually, to protect tenant data, maintain cloud service availability, and proactively identify security incidents e.g. via prompt log analysis.</td>
          </tr>
          
          <tr>
            <th colspan="3" scope="row">Most effective risk mitigations particularly relevant to IaaS</th>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td rowspan="2" headers="risk r34">Tenant’s Virtual Machine (VM) compromised by malicious third party<sup>8</sup></td>
            <td headers="ref r34">1 - IaaS</td>
            <td headers="fix r34">Provide network access controls enabling the tenant to implement network segmentation and segregation<sup>26</sup>, including a network filtering capability to disallow remote administration of their VMs except from their IP address.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td headers="ref r35" class="background">2 - IaaS</td>
            <td headers="fix r35" class="background">Provide the tenant with securely configured and patched VM template images. Avoid assigning a weak administrative passphrase to newly provisioned VMs.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <th colspan="3" scope="row">Most effective risk mitigations particularly relevant to PaaS</th>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td headers="risk r36">Tenant’s data compromised by malicious third party</td>
            <td headers="ref r36">1 - PaaS</td>
            <td headers="fix r36">Harden and securely configure operating system, web server and platform software. Limit inbound and outbound network connectivity to only required ports/protocols. Promptly perform patching and log analysis.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <th colspan="3" scope="row">Most effective risk mitigations particularly relevant to SaaS</th>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td rowspan="2" headers="risk r37">Tenant’s data compromised by malicious third party</td>
            <td headers="ref r37" class="background">1 - SaaS</td>
            <td headers="fix r37" class="background">Implement security controls specific to the cloud service e.g. for email delivered as a service, provide features including whitelisted content filtering with automated dynamic analysis of emails and email attachments.</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td headers="ref r38">2 - SaaS </td>
            <td headers="fix r38">Implement general security controls<sup>7</sup> e.g. limited inbound and outbound network connectivity to only required ports/protocols, antivirus software updated daily, intrusion prevention systems and prompt log analysis.</td>
          </tr>
        </table>
        
